- [Presenter] The controllers inside a Flux handle
all of it's GitOps operations.
So it's important to understand them.
Let's talk a little bit more about what they do.
At their core, control work together
within Flux to reconcile a cluster's runtime state
with the desired state.
The Flux controllers are an implementation
of a Kubernetes controller pattern.
This pattern uses a control loop along
with custom resource definitions
to manage an aspect of cluster state.
This allows us to build Yammel manifest specifically
for Flux custom resource definitions
to have them applied inside the cluster.
The controllers used by Flux
are part of a closely related project
known as the GitOps toolkit.
This project contains loosely coupled tools
for building continuous delivery platforms.
Inside of the toolkit, you'll find these controllers
that can be used with Flux.
The source customize in-home controllers
are the core controllers that focus
on reconciling declarative manifests inside of the cluster.
The notification and image automation controllers
provide some auxiliary tools
that can notify you when something changes in Flux
or that can automatically update your manifests
based upon the availability of a freshly built image.
Let's take a look at how controllers work
within in flux to enable GitOps workflows.
To do this, we'll take a deeper look at two controllers,
the source and customized controllers.
These controllers can be used to sync resources
on our cluster with Kubernetes manifests
stored in our get repository.
To start working with Flux and GitOps,
we start by creating a definition
for a source custom resource
and committing that definition
into our Flux configuration repository.
From here, Flux will sync with its configuration repository
and apply the new resource into its namespace
within the cluster.
The source will define the repository
where the source controller can find the manifest
with our desired state that we want running in the cluster.
At this point, the source controller
will pull the manifests and begin monitoring
the repository defined in the source for any changes.
Then another custom resource known as a customization
enters the picture.
The customization is used to reconcile a source
with the running state in the cluster.
We can generate it with the Flux CLI
and commit it to the Flux configuration repository as well.
Flux will then sync with its configuration repository
and the new customization will be applied
within the cluster.
Once supplied, the customization begins
to observe the running state of the cluster
and it compares it with its associated source
that is provided by the source controller.
If the customized controller notices a difference
between the clusters containerized workloads
and the desired state expressed in the manifest
located inside the environment repository,
it begins the reconciliation process.
This process occurs by applying changes
through the Kubernetes management API
which will trigger the control plane to pull
and deploy the right containerized workload
to match the desired state.
So that is a basic GitOps workflow
established with Flux and its controllers.
Luckily it's GitOps and we only need to know
how to interact with Git.
You'll see this in our next lesson
as we get hands-on with this concept.